# Reference.

[TOC]

## Core rules






### core.generator

```python
core.generator(
    # Optional arguments.
    impl = None,
)
```

Registers a callback that is called at the end of the config generation
stage to modify/append/delete generated configs in an arbitrary way.

The callback accepts single argument 'ctx' which is a struct with the
following fields:
  'config_set': a dict {config file name -> (str | proto)}.

The callback is free to modify ctx.config_set in whatever way it wants, e.g.
by adding new values there or mutating/deleting existing ones.

Arguments:


* **impl**: a callback func(ctx) -> None.





### core.bucket

```python
core.bucket(
    # Required arguments.
    name,

    # Optional arguments.
    acls = None,
)
```

Defines a bucket: a container for LUCI resources that share the same ACL.

Arguments:


* **name**: name of the bucket, e.g. 'ci' or 'try'. Required.
* **acls**: list of acl.entry objects.





### core.builder

```python
core.builder(
    # Required arguments.
    name,
    bucket,
    recipe,

    # Optional arguments.
    properties = None,
    service_account = None,
    caches = None,
    execution_timeout = None,
    dimensions = None,
    priority = None,
    swarming_tags = None,
    expiration_timeout = None,
    build_numbers = None,
    experimental = None,
    task_template_canary_percentage = None,
    luci_migration_host = None,
    triggers = None,
    triggered_by = None,
)
```

Defines a generic builder.

It runs some recipe in some requested environment, passing it a struct with
given properties. It is launched whenever something triggers it (a poller or
some other builder, or maybe some external actor via Buildbucket or LUCI
Scheduler APIs).

The full unique builder name (as expected by Buildbucket RPC interface) is
a pair ("<project>", "<bucket>/<name>"), but within a single project config
this builder can be referred to either via its bucket-scoped name (i.e.
"<bucket>/<name>") or just via it's name alone (i.e. "<name>"), if this
doesn't introduce ambiguities.

The definition of what can *potentially* trigger what is defined through
'triggers' and 'triggered_by' fields. They specify how to prepare ACLs and
other configuration of services that execute builds.

If builder A is defined as "triggers builder B", it means all services should
expect A builds to trigger B builds via LUCI Scheduler's EmitTriggers RPC or
via Buildbucket's ScheduleBuild RPC, but the actual triggering is still the
responsibility of A's recipe.

There's a caveat though: only Scheduler ACLs are auto-generated by the config
generator when one builder triggers another, because each Scheduler job has
its own ACL and we can precisely configure who's allowed to trigger this job.

Buildbucket ACLs are left unchanged though, since they apply to an entire
bucket, and making a large scale change like that (without really knowing
whether Buildbucket API will be used) is dangerous.

So if the recipe triggers other builds directly through Buildbucket, it is
the responsibility of the config author (you) to correctly specify Buildbucket
ACLs, e.g. by adding the corresponding service account to the bucket ACLs:

    core.bucket(
        ...
        acls = [
            ...
            acl.entry(acl.BUILDBUCKET_TRIGGERER, <builder service account>),
            ...
        ],
    )

This is not necessary if the recipe uses Scheduler API instead of Buildbucket.

Arguments:


* **name**: name of the builder, will show up in UIs and logs. Required.
* **bucket**: name of the bucket the builder belongs to. Required.
* **recipe**: name of a recipe to run, see core.recipe(...) rule. Required.
* **properties**: a dict with string keys and JSON-serializable values, defining properties to pass to the recipe.
* **service_account**: an email of a service account to run the recipe under: the recipe (and various tools it calls, e.g. gsutil) will be able to make outbound HTTP calls that have an OAuth access token belonging to this service account (provided it is registered with LUCI).
* **caches**: a list of swarming.cache(...) objects describing Swarming named caches that should be present on the bot. See swarming.cache(...) doc for more details.
* **execution_timeout**: how long to wait for a running build to finish before forcefully aborting it and marking the build as timed out. If None, defer the decision to Buildbucket service.
* **dimensions**: a dict with swarming dimensions, indicating requirements for a bot to execute the build. Keys are strings (e.g. 'os'), and values are either strings (e.g. 'Linux'), swarming.dimension(...) objects (for defining expiring dimensions) or lists of thereof.
* **priority**: int [1-255] or None, indicating swarming task priority, lower is more important. If None, defer the decision to BuildBucket service.
* **swarming_tags**: a list of tags ("k:v" strings) to assign to the Swarming task that runs the builder. Each tag will also end up in "swarming_tag" Buildbucket tag, for example "swarming_tag:builder:release".
* **expiration_timeout**: how long to wait for a build to be picked up by a matching (based on 'dimensions') bot before canceling it and marking as expired. If None, defer the decision to Buildbucket service.
* **build_numbers**: if True, generate monotonically increasing contiguous numbers for each build, unique within the builder. If None, defer the decision to Buildbucket service.
* **experimental**: if True, by default a new build in this builder will be marked as experimental. This is seen from recipes and they may behave differently (e.g. avoiding any side-effects). If None, defer the decision to Buildbucket service.
* **task_template_canary_percentage**: int [0-100] or None, indicating percentage of builds that should use a canary swarming task template. If None, defer the decision to Buildbucket service.
* **luci_migration_host**: deprecated setting that was important during the migration from Buildbot to LUCI. Refer to Buildbucket docs for the meaning.
* **triggers**: names of builders this builder triggers.
* **triggered_by**: names of builders or pollers this builder is triggered by.





### core.gitiles_poller

```python
core.gitiles_poller(
    # Required arguments.
    name,
    bucket,
    repo,

    # Optional arguments.
    refs = None,
    refs_regexps = None,
    schedule = None,
    triggers = None,
)
```

Defines a gitiles poller which can trigger builders on git commits.

It watches a set of git refs and triggers builders if either:
    * A watched ref's tip has changed (e.g. a new commit landed on a ref).
    * A ref belonging to the watched set has just been created.

The watched ref set is defined via 'refs' and 'refs_regexps' fields. One is
just a simple enumeration of refs, and another allows to use regular
expressions to define what refs belong to the watched set. Both fields can
be used at the same time. If neither is set, the gitiles_poller defaults to
watching "refs/heads/master".

Arguments:


* **name**: name of the poller, to refer to it from other rules. Required.
* **bucket**: name of the bucket the poller belongs to. Required.
* **repo**: URL of a git repository to poll, starting with https://. Required.
* **refs**: a list of fully qualified refs to watch, e.g. "refs/heads/master" or "refs/tags/v1.2.3".
* **refs_regexps**: a list of regular expressions that define the watched set of refs, e.g. "refs/heads/[^/]+" or "refs/branch-heads/\d+\.\d+". The regular expression should have a literal prefix with at least two slashes present, e.g. "refs/release-\d+/foobar" is not allowed, because the literal prefix "refs/release-" contains only one slash. The regexp should not start with ^ or end with $ as they will be added automatically.
* **schedule**: string with a schedule that describes when to run one iteration of the poller. It is rare to use custom schedules for pollers. By default, the poller will run each 30 sec.
* **triggers**: names of builders to trigger whenever the poller detects a new git commit on any ref in the watched ref set.





### core.logdog

```python
core.logdog(
    # Optional arguments.
    gs_bucket = None,
)
```

Configuration for the LogDog service.

Arguments:


* **gs_bucket**: base Google Storage archival path, archive logs will be written to this bucket/path.





### core.project

```python
core.project(
    # Required arguments.
    name,

    # Optional arguments.
    buildbucket = None,
    logdog = None,
    scheduler = None,
    swarming = None,
    acls = None,
)
```

Defines a LUCI project.

There should be exactly one such definition in a single top-level config file.

Arguments:


* **name**: full name of the project. Required.
* **buildbucket**: hostname of a Buildbucket service to use (if any).
* **logdog**: hostname of a LogDog service to use (if any).
* **scheduler**: hostname of a LUCI Scheduler service to use (if any).
* **swarming**: hostname of a Swarming service to use (if any).
* **acls**: list of acl.entry objects, will be inherited by all buckets.





### core.recipe

```python
core.recipe(
    # Required arguments.
    name,
    cipd_package,

    # Optional arguments.
    cipd_version = None,
    recipe = None,
)
```

Defines where to locate a particular recipe.

Builders refer to recipes in their 'recipe' field. Multiple builders can
execute the same recipe (perhaps passing different properties to it).

Recipes are located inside cipd packages called "recipe bundles". Typically
the cipd package name with the recipe bundle will look like:

    infra/recipe_bundles/chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/tools/build

Recipes bundled from internal repositories are typically under

    infra_internal/recipe_bundles/...

But if you're building your own recipe bundles, they could be located
elsewhere.

The cipd version to fetch is usually a lower-cased git ref (like
'refs/heads/master'), or it can be a cipd tag (like 'git_revision:abc...').

Arguments:


* **name**: name of this recipe entity, to refer to it from builders. If 'recipe' is None, also specifies the recipe name within the bundle. Required.
* **cipd_package**: a cipd package name with the recipe bundle. Required.
* **cipd_version**: a version of the recipe bundle package to fetch, default is 'refs/heads/master'.
* **recipe**: name of a recipe inside the recipe bundle if it differs from 'name'. Useful if recipe names clash between different recipe bundles. When this happens, 'name' can be used as a non-ambiguous alias, and 'recipe' can provide the actual recipe name. Defaults to 'name'.



